Output dataset section (#246)
kg-construct/rml-fno-spec: spec/section/output.md

## The Generated RDF Triples of a Triples Map

This subsection describes the process of <dfn data-lt="generated RDF triples">generating RDF triples</dfn> from a [=Triples Map=]. This process contributes [=RDF triples=] to the [=output dataset=]. Each generated triple MUST be placed into one or more graphs of the output dataset.

The [=generated RDF triples=] are determined by the following algorithm. [=RML Processors=] MAY employ alternative implementations to compute the generated [=RDF triples=], provided that the resulting output dataset is semantically equivalent to the one obtained by this algorithm.

Let:

- **sm** be the [=subject map=] of the [=Triples Map=].
- **iterations** be the set of [=logical iterations=] obtained by evaluating the [=logical source=] of the [=Triples Map=] using its declared [=reference formulation=].
- **classes** be the set of class [=IRIs=] defined in **sm** (via `rml:class`).
- **sgm** be the set of [=graph maps=] attached to **sm**.

For each [=logical iteration=]  **iteration** in **iterations**, apply the following steps:

> 1. Let [=subject=] be the [=RDF term=] resulting from applying **sm** to **iteration**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Let [=subject=] be the [=generated RDF term=] resulting from applying **sm** to **iteration**.
```

2. Let **subject_graphs** be the set of [=RDF term=] resulting from applying each graph map in **sgm** to **iteration**.

> 3. For each class [=IRI=] in **classes**, add a triple to the [=output dataset=] as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. For each [=class IRI=] in **classes**, add a triple to the [=output dataset=] as follows:
```

4. For each [=predicate-object map=] of the Triples Map, apply the following steps:

>    - Let **predicates** be the set of [=RDF terms=] resulting from applying each predicate map of the predicate-object map to **iteration**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Let **predicates** be the set of [=generated RDF terms=] resulting from applying each predicate map of the predicate-object map to **iteration**.
```

>    - Let **objects** be the set of [=RDF terms=] resulting from applying each object map (excluding [=referencing object maps=]) to **iteration**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Let **objects** be the set of [=generated RDF terms=] resulting from applying each [=object map=] (excluding [=referencing object maps=]) to **iteration**.
```

   - Let **pogm** be the set of graph maps of the predicate-object map.

>    - Let **predicate_object_graphs** be the set of RDF terms resulting from applying each graph map in **pogm** to **iteration**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Let **predicate_object_graphs** be the set of [=generated RDF terms=] resulting from applying each [=graph map=] in **pogm** to **iteration**.
```

- Let **psm** be the [=subject map=] of the [=parent Triples Map=] referenced by [=referencing object map=].
- Let **pogm** be the set of [=graph maps=] of the [=predicate-object map=].
- Let **joined_iterations** be the result of evaluating the [=join conditions=] defined by the [=referencing object map=], combining iterations from both the child and parent logical sources.

For each pair `<child_iteration, parent_iteration>` in **joined_iterations**, apply the following steps:

1. Let **subject** be the [=RDF terms=] resulting from applying **sm** to **child_iteration**.
2. Let **predicates** be the set of [=RDF terms=] resulting from applying each [=predicate map=] of the [=predicate-object map=] to **child_iteration**.

> 3. Let **object** be the [=RDF terms=] resulting from applying **psm** to **parent_iteration**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Let **object** be the [=generated RDF term=] resulting from applying **psm** to **parent_iteration**.
```

> 4. Let **subject_graphs** be the set of RDF terms resulting from applying each graph map in **sgm** to **child_iteration**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Let **subject_graphs** be the set of [=generated RDF terms=] resulting from applying each [=graph map=] in **sgm** to **child_iteration**.
```

A [=term map=] defines how an [=RDF term=] is generated from the evaluation of a [=logical iteration=] over a [=logical source=].  
The result of evaluating a term map for a given [=logical iteration=] can be one of the following:

> - **Empty**, if any referenced value of the [=term map=] evaluates to a null, empty or missing value (each data format defines it in [RML-IO-Registry](https://w3id.org/kg-construct/rml-io-registry/));  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Empty**, if the [=expression evaluation result=] of the [=term map=] evaluates to a null, empty or missing value (each data format defines it in [RML-IO-Registry](https://w3id.org/kg-construct/rml-io-registry/));  
```

- **An [=RDF term=]**, when evaluation produces a valid [=RDF term=] according to the [=term generation rules=];  
- **A data error**, when a valid RDF term cannot be produced.

The [=generated RDF term=] of a [=term map=] for a given [=logical iteration=] is determined as follows:

> 1. If the term map is a **constant-valued term map**, then the generated RDF term is the term map’s constant value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If the term map is a [=constant-valued term map=], then the generated RDF term is the term map’s [=constant value=].
```

> 2. If the term map is a **reference-valued term map**, then the generated RDF term is determined by evaluating the [=reference value=] expression over the [=logical iteration=] and applying the [=term generation rules=] to the resulting value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If the term map is a [=reference-valued term map=], then the generated RDF term is determined by applying the [=term generation rules=] to its [=reference value=].
```

> 3. If the term map is a **template-valued term map**, then the generated RDF term is determined by evaluating the [=template value=] expression over the [=logical iteration=] and applying the [=term generation rules=] to the resulting value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If the term map is a [=template-valued term map=], then the generated RDF term is determined by applying the [=term generation rules=] to the [=template value=].
```

> The <dfn>term generation rules</dfn> define how a concrete RDF term is generated from each value from the [=expression evaluation result=]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The <dfn>term generation rules</dfn> define how a concrete RDF term is generated from each value from an [=expression evaluation result=]:
```

>    - Return a blank node that is unique in the target graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - If the [=term map=] has an [=expression map=], return a [=blank node=] whose identifier is determined by the [=expression evaluation result=].
   - If the [=term map=] has no [=expression map=], generate a fresh [=blank node=] with a unique identifier.
```

5. **If the term type is `rml:Literal`:**

>    - If the term map declares a [=language map=], then evaluate the [=language map=] to obtain a [=language tag=] and return a literal with that [=language tag=] and the natural RDF lexical form corresponding to *value*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - If the term map declares a [=language map=], then evaluate the [=language map=] to obtain a [=language tag=]. If the result is a valid [=language tag=] according to [[BCP47]], return a [=literal=] with that [=language tag=] and the [=natural RDF lexical form=] corresponding to *value*. Otherwise, raise a **data error**.
```
